CONFIGURATIONS.MD, before:

# HOW TO RUN THE DOCKER FILE LOCALLY

The dockerfile should contain the below in order to run the flask development server instead of the gunicorn approach which is relevant for prodution

```
FROM python:3.10
EXPOSE 5000
WORKDIR /app
COPY requirements.txt .
RUN pip install -r requirements.txt 
COPY . .
CMD [ "flask", "run",  "--host", "0.0.0.0"]
```

Then ensure that all three programs run as follows

- Postman, for sending requests
- VScode for code changes etc
- Docker 

To run the docker app then use the following command from within the VSCode terminal 

```
docker run -dp 5000:5000 -w //app -v "C:\Users\petro\OneDrive\Documents\APIcourse\pythonrefresher\StoreAPIproject://app" rest-apis-flask-python
```

if any changes are made then we may need to rebuild the image first with

```
docker build -t rest-apis-flask-python .
```

if any packages are missing then install them using pip

```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```


if no changes were  made then docker compose up should work too

```
docker compose up
```

Commit message:

added environment variables to allow DATABASE_URL variable to point to db online and docker-entrypoint.sh file to run db migratiobns before deploying app

CONFIGURATIONS.MD, after:

# HOW TO RUN THE DOCKER FILE LOCALLY

The dockerfile should contain the below in order to run the flask development server instead of the gunicorn approach which is relevant for prodution

```
FROM python:3.10
EXPOSE 5000
WORKDIR /app
COPY requirements.txt .
RUN pip install -r requirements.txt 
COPY . .
CMD [ "flask", "run",  "--host", "0.0.0.0"]
```

Then ensure that all three programs run as follows

- Postman, for sending requests
- VScode for code changes etc
- Docker 

To run the docker app locally then use the following command from within the VSCode terminal 

```
docker run -dp 5000:5000 -w //app -v "C:\Users\petro\OneDrive\Documents\APIcourse\pythonrefresher\StoreAPIproject://app" rest-apis-flask-python
```

if any changes are made then we may need to rebuild the image first with

```
docker build -t rest-apis-flask-python .
```

if any packages are missing then install them using pip

```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```


if no changes were  made then docker compose up should work too

```
docker compose up
```

# .env FILE

you need a .env file that with a 

```
DATABASE_URL=
``` 

paramater to connect to a database locally
